# patient-system-master
## Summary
### Simple full stack project with RESTful Web services API and also using for consuming REST API using Spring Boot and React. Spring Boot (MVC, JPA, Hibernate) and Mysql Database were used to create the Backend application (Restful web service API) and React.js was used to create the frontend application with Material UI and React Hooks(useState, useEffect) for the functional components.
## [Demo Video](https://youtu.be/hL0TMtTsIB8)
### Video showcasing the Application since the project setup is long and tedious.
## Technology Used:
### Spring Boot, Java 8, Maven, Apache TomCat, MySql, React, Node.js, Intellij IDEA, VsCode, Postman, XAMPP, MaterialUI, ClearDB, Heroku
## Backend
### The backend folder structure was created using the Spring Boot [Spring Initializr](https://start.spring.io/) with the dependencies being: Spring Web, MySql Driver, and Spring Data JPA. Maven is responsible for building the application, something to note is that the demo video above is done using a local host to connect to the database. The data base connection happens in patient-system-master/patientbackend/src/main/resources/application.properties in the version of this folder in this repo, the database is connected to a cloudbased ClearDB to make it easier to run on any machine. Now that the database connection is set up, all of the files within patient-system-master/patientbackend/src/main/java/com/WillZinkann/patientsystem/ are responsible for saving data into the data base and retriving data from the data base. This is done with PostMapping and GetMapping. In order to see if this API was functional I ran a local MySql database using XAMPP, and made GET and POST API calls using Postman. In order to run this backend application on your machine Java, Maven, and an IDE of your choice must be installed.
## Frontend
The frontend application was created using React with help from node.js and MaterialUI. Since the focus of this project is the backend REST API I chose to take all of the UI elements from MaterialUI this made it easy to just focus on the technacialities while making the app look presentable. Since I created a REST API, getting data from the database was quite easy, the two folders within patient-system-master/patientfrontend/src/components/ Appbar.js and Patient.js were the only two files not created by React. Appbar.js is just a UI file and Patient.js is where the name and locatoion text boxes are populated and sent to the backend, and the output text box retrives all of the patients from the data set. To run the dataset, node.js and React must be installed then, 'npm start' must be ran in the terminal at the root patientfrontend directory. You can learn more in the [Create React App documentation](https://create-react-app.dev/docs/getting-started/).
## TO DO
Since I only had a few days to complete this project, ontop of my normal classload during my Midterms. There were some things that I would have added if I had unlimited time. The first would have been deploying the full stack application with Heroku, this would have made it much simplier for anyone to be able to use.
The other thing I am planning on adding in the future is the ability to delete entriesd from the database. This would be done using RequestMapping in order to find records by id and remove them.
Thank you for reading.
